deep in the rainforests of Asia a hidden
sanctuary is fighting to save one of the
planet's most endangered species despite
growing to a length of two and a half
metres and weighing in at over half a
ton the Sumatran rhino is the smallest
of the world's five rhinoceros species
they were once found throughout the
jungles of Southeast Asia but poaching
and deforestation have now restricted
them to isolated patches of forest
scattered across the islands of Sumatra
and Borneo
[Music]
fewer than 80 remain in the wild and the
fragmentation of their habitat means
rhinos of a suitable breeding age have
little chance of encountering one
another and thus little chance of
reversing the decline in their numbers
that's been ongoing for many decades
with the prospect of extinction already
looming in 1996 the Sumatran rhino
sanctuary was founded in the rain
forests of Indonesia to help try and
save the species because my final
numbers are getting decreased over the
years now we are trying to reach Martin
Lionel just to increase the number and
then in the future if we have a good
habitat they will be released back into
the world
Sumatra rhinos are solitary animals with
a wide and varied diet so keeping and
breeding them in captivity is extremely
difficult when the sanctuaries breeding
program got underway only three captive
births had been recorded in the previous
100 years in order to mimic conditions
in the wild as closely as possible and
keep them safe from poachers the
sanctuary decided to provide each Rhino
with a large fenced off area of natural
rainforest habitat in which to wonder
one of the first rhinos selected to join
the breeding program was a female called
rata
she was rescued in year 2005 she came
out from the forest to the village
nearby the forest we rescue her because
at the time we have a very very severe
drought
after her arrival rata was paired with a
male called and Alice hopes for the
future of the species now rested on this
pair twice she fell pregnant and twice
the pregnancies failed then finally in
[Music]
a male Rhino named and a to the first
captive birth ever in Indonesia
and in 2016 a sister Delilah followed
the birth of ratas cars is a huge step
forward in efforts to save the species
from extinction there is still much more
work to be done but with a successful
captive breeding program established and
the consolidation of the fragmented wild
population into protected areas there is
now a chance that future generations of
Sumatran rhinos will continue to roam
the forests of Southeast Asia